add permissions and update existing content for notebooks (#77327)
Azure/azure-content: articles/sentinel/notebooks.md

The [Azure Sentinel Community GitHub repository](https://github.com/Azure/Azure-Sentinel) is the location for any future Azure Sentinel notebooks built by Microsoft or contributed from the community.

To use the notebooks, you must first have the right permissions, depending on your user role.

## Manage access to Azure Sentinel notebooks

As Azure Sentinel notebooks run on [Azure Machine Learning](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/machine-learning/overview-what-is-azure-ml) (Azure ML) platform, you must have appropriate access to both Azure Sentinel workspace and an [Azure ML workspace](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/machine-learning/concept-workspace).

1. **Azure Sentinel permissions**
    

>     Like other Azure Sentinel resources, to access notebooks on Azure Sentinel Notebooks blade, an Azure Sentinel Reader, Azure Sentinel Responder, or Azure Sentinel Contributor role is required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    As with other Azure Sentinel resources, access to notebooks on the Azure Sentinel Notebooks blade requires the **Azure Sentinel Reader**, **Azure Sentinel Responder**, or **Azure Sentinel Contributor** role.
```

    Learn more about [Azure Sentinel-specific roles and permissions](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/sentinel/roles).

2. **Azure Machine Learning permissions**

    ### Default roles

>     An Azure Machine Learning workspace is an Azure resource. Like other Azure resources, when a new Azure Machine Learning workspace is created, it comes with three default roles. You can add users to the workspace and assign them to one of these built-in roles.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    An **Azure Machine Learning (Azure ML) workspace** is an Azure resource. Like other Azure resources, when a new Azure Machine Learning workspace is created, it comes with three default roles. You can add users to the workspace and assign them to one of these built-in roles.
```

    | Role | Access level |
    | --- | --- |
    | **Reader** | Read-only actions in the workspace. Readers can list and view assets, including [datastore](how-to-access-data.md) credentials, in a workspace. Readers can't create or update these assets. |

>     | **Contributor** | View, create, edit, or delete (where applicable) assets including notebooks in a workspace. For example, contributors can create a notebook, create or attach a compute cluster, submit a run, and deploy a web service. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    | **Contributor** | View, create, edit, or delete (where applicable) assets - including notebooks - in a workspace. For example, contributors can create a notebook, create or attach a compute cluster, submit a run, and deploy a web service. |
```

>     | **Owner** | Full access to the workspace, including the ability to view, create, edit, or delete (where applicable) assets in a workspace. Additionally, you can change role assignments. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    | **Owner** | Full access to the workspace, including the ability to view, create, edit, or delete (where applicable) assets in a workspace. Owners can also change role assignments. |
```

    | **Custom Role** | Allows you to customize access to specific control or data plane operations within a workspace. For example, submitting a run, creating a compute, deploying a model or registering a dataset. |

>     >[!IMPORTANT] Role access can be scoped to multiple levels in Azure. For example, someone with owner access to a workspace may not have owner access to the resource group that contains the workspace. For more information, see How Azure RBAC works.

Reviewer: Missing link for "How Azure RBAC works"?

    Currently there are no additional built-in roles that are specific to Azure Machine Learning. For more information on built-in roles, see [Azure built-in roles](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/role-based-access-control/built-in-roles).

    ### Manage workspace access

>     If you're an owner of an Azure ML workspace, you can add and remove roles for the workspace. You can also assign roles to users. Use the following links to discover how to manage access:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If you're an owner of an Azure ML workspace, you can add and remove roles for the workspace. You can also assign roles to users. Use the following links to learn about different ways to manage access:
```

    - [Azure portal UI](../role-based-access-control/role-assignments-portal.md)
    - [PowerShell](../role-based-access-control/role-assignments-powershell.md)
    - [Azure CLI](../role-based-access-control/role-assignments-cli.md)
    - [REST API](../role-based-access-control/role-assignments-rest.md)
    - [Azure Resource Manager templates](../role-based-access-control/role-assignments-template.md)

    If you have installed the [Azure Machine Learning CLI](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/machine-learning/reference-azure-machine-learning-cli), you can use CLI commands to assign roles to users:

    ```azurecli-interactive 
    az ml workspace share -w <workspace_name> -g <resource_group_name> --role <role_name> --user <user_corp_email_address>
    ```

    The `user` field is the email address of an existing user in the instance of Azure Active Directory where the workspace parent subscription lives. Here is an example of how to use this command:

    ```azurecli-interactive 

>     az ml workspace share -w my_workspace -g my_resource_group --role Contributor --user jdoe@contoson.com

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    az ml workspace share -w my_workspace -g my_resource_group --role Contributor --user jdoe@contoso.com
```

    ```

    > [!NOTE]

>     > "az ml workspace share" command does not work for federated account by Azure Active Directory B2B. Please use Azure UI portal instead of command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > "az ml workspace share" command does not work for federated account by Azure Active Directory B2B. Please use the Azure UI portal instead of the command line.
```
Also, not sure what you mean by "federated account by Azure Active Directory B2B". Could you please explain that to me?

    ### Grant access via Azure portal UI
    To grant permissions via the UI, follow the following steps.

    i. From the Azure portal, navigate to your Machine Learning workspace. If you don't have an Azure ML workspace, [create a new Azure ML workspace](#Create-an-Azure-ML-workspace).

    ii. Select **Access Control (IAM)** blade, then in **Grant access to this resource**, select **Add Role Assignment** or **Use the classic experience**.

    iii. Select a role and the user you want to grant the permissions to. Then select **Save**.
    
    > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
    > ![grant aml access](./media/notebooks/sentinel-notebooks-aml-access.png)

    ### Create custom role
    
    If the built-in roles are insufficient, you can create custom roles. Custom roles might have read, write, delete, and compute resource permissions in that workspace. You can make the role available at a specific workspace level, a specific resource group level, or a specific subscription level.

>     Learn more on how to [create custom role](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/machine-learning/how-to-assign-roles#create-custom-role).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Learn more about how to [create custom roles](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/machine-learning/how-to-assign-roles#create-custom-role).
```

## Create an Azure ML workspace

> 1. From the Azure portal, navigate to **Azure Sentinel** > **Threat management** > **Notebooks** and then select **Create a new AML workspace**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. From the Azure portal, navigate to **Azure Sentinel** > **Threat management** > **Notebooks** and then select **Create new AML workspace**.
```
Changed to match the text of the UI element to select.

    > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]

>     > ![create a new aml workspace](./media/notebooks/sentinel-azure-notebooks-aml-create.png)

Reviewer: This image should include the bar at the top (just above the number of notebook templates) where the "Create new AML workspace" button appears.

1. Provide the information for an Azure AML workspace. Then select **Next**.

    |Field|Description|
    |--|--|
    |Subscription|Select the Azure subscription that you want to use.|
    |Resource group|Use an existing resource group in your subscription or enter a name to create a new resource group. A resource group holds related resources for an Azure solution.|
    |Workspace name|Enter a unique name that identifies your workspace. Names must be unique across the resource group. Use a name that's easy to recall and to differentiate from workspaces created by others.|

>     |Region|Select the location closest to your users and the data resources to create your workspace.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    |Region|Select the location closest to your users and data resources in which to create your workspace.|
```

    |Storage account| A storage account is used as the default datastore for the workspace. You may create a new Azure Storage resource or select an existing one in your subscription.|
    |KeyVault| A key vault is used to store secrets and other sensitive information that is needed by the workspace. You may create a new Azure Key Vault resource or select an existing one in your subscription.|
    |Application insights| The workspace uses Azure Application Insights to store monitoring information about your deployed models. You may create a new Azure Application Insights resource or select an existing one in your subscription.|
    |Container registry| A container registry is used to register docker images used in training and deployments. To minimize costs, a new Azure Container Registry resource is created only after you build your first image. Alternatively, you may choose to create the resource now or select an existing one in your subscription, or select **None** if you don't want to use any container registry.|

    > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
    > ![provide details for aml workspace](./media/notebooks/sentinel-notebooks-create-aml-details.png)

> 1. On "Networking" page, you can connect to your workspace either publicly or privately using a private endpoint. Then select **review + Create**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. On the **Networking** tab, you can choose either a public or a private endpoint through which to connect to your workspace. Then select **Review + create**.
```
It would be good to have an explanation here of the implications of choosing a public vs. a private endpoint, and why you might choose one or the other.

    > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
    > ![networking for aml workspace](./media/notebooks/sentinel-notebooks-aml-networking.png)

> 1. Review the information, verify that it is correct, and then select **Create** to start the deployment of your workspace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Review the information, verify that it is correct, and then (once you see the "Validation passed" message) select **Create** to start the deployment of your workspace.
```

    > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
    > ![review workspace details](./media/notebooks/sentinel-notebook-aml-create-laststep.png)

    It can take several minutes to create your workspace in the cloud during which time the **Overview** page displays the current deployment status.

    > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
    > ![workspace deployment](./media/notebooks/sentinel-notebooks-azureml-deploy.png)

1. Once your deployment is complete, you can launch notebooks in your new Azure ML workspace.

    > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
    > ![workspace deployment succeeded](./media/notebooks/sentinel-notebooks-azureml-complete.png)

> 1. If you have multiple Azure ML workspaces, setting a default Azure ML workspace where you want to run the notebooks is required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. If you have multiple Azure ML workspaces, you must set a default Azure ML workspace where you want to run your notebooks.
```

1. Select individual notebooks to view their descriptions, required data types, and data sources.

    > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
    > ![select notebook](./media/notebooks/sentinel-notebooks-select.png)

1. Select the notebook you want to use, and then select **Save Notebook** to clone the notebook template into your own notebook project. You will then have an option to rename the notebook or keep the default name. 

    > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
    > ![save notebook](./media/notebooks/sentinel-notebooks-save.png)

1. Once the notebook is saved to your default Azure ML workspace, on the same view, select **Launch notebook**. 

    > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
    > ![launch notebook](./media/notebooks/sentinel-notebooks-launch.png)

1. A new page, your Azure ML studio, is open.

    > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
    > ![aml notebook](./media/notebooks/sentinel-notebooks-on-aml.png)

1. Select a compute instance. The compute is used for your notebook server. 

    * If you don't have a compute instance, do the following:
        

>         a. In the notebook or script toolbar, to the right of the Compute dropdown, select **+ New Compute**. Depending on your screen size, this may be located under a ... menu.

Reviewer: Please either replace the ellipsis (...) with appropriate text, or remove the whole "Depending on your screen size..." sentence.

        > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
        > ![start compute instance wizard](./media/notebooks/sentinel-notebooks-new-compute.png)

        b. On the **Configured required settings** page, name a compute, choose a Virtual Machine size based on your workload types, and then select **Next**.

        Start with one with the **General Purpose** category first if you need compute to only test the notebooks.
        Only you can see and use the compute instances you create. Your User files are stored separately from the VM and are shared among all compute instances in the workspace.

        > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
        > ![Select compute instance VM](./media/notebooks/sentinel-notebooks-compute-select.png)
    

>     * If you have a stopped compute instance, select **Start compute** to the right of the Compute dropdown. Depending on your screen size, this may be located under a ... menu.

Reviewer: Please either replace the ellipsis (...) with appropriate text, or remove the whole "Depending on your screen size..." sentence.
